Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior, environment, 
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and 
                          for other purposes.

                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 3, 2019

   Ms. McCollum, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior, environment, 
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and 
                          for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of the Interior, environment, and 
related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, 
in the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction 
of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration 
of the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), 
$1,265,097,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021; of which 
$125,653,000 for annual and deferred maintenance shall remain available 
until expended, and of which $6,000,000 is for a pilot program to 
complement activities authorized by Public Law 92-195:  Provided, That 
amounts in the fee account of the Bureau of Land Management permit 
process improvement fund may be used for bureau-related expenses 
directly associated with the processing of oil and gas applications for 
permits to drill and related use of authorizations.
    In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law Administration program 
operations, including the cost of administering the mining claim fee 
program, to remain available until expended, to be reduced by amounts 
collected by the Bureau and credited to this appropriation from mining 
claim maintenance fees and location fees that are hereby authorized for 
fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at 
not more than $1,265,097,000, and $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, from communication site rental fees established by the Bureau 
for the cost of administering communication site activities.
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under this 
heading in fiscal year 2016 or before, $14,000,000 is permanently 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              construction

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under this 
heading $5,000,000 is permanently rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts 
may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the 
Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) 
of Public Law 94-579, including administrative expenses and acquisition 
of lands or waters, or interests therein, $33,800,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                   oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein, including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
$117,195,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 25 
percent of the aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year 
from the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby 
made a charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
shall be transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance 
with the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the Act of 
August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).

                           range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1751), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent 
of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 
and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall 
be available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under 
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any provision 
to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 
1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant to 
that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or 
settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended 
under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, 
or rehabilitate any public lands administered through the Bureau of 
Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a resource 
developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are used 
on the exact lands damaged which led to the action:  Provided further, 
That any such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to repair 
damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be used to 
repair other damaged public lands.

                       miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such 
amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to remain available 
until expended.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Land Management may carry out the operations funded 
under this Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants, cooperative 
agreements and reimbursable agreements with public and private 
entities, including with States. Appropriations for the Bureau shall be 
available for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary 
structures, and alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities to which the United States has title; up to 
$100,000 for payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for 
information or evidence concerning violations of laws administered by 
the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $10,000:  
Provided, That notwithstanding Public Law 90-620 (44 U.S.C. 501), the 
Bureau may, under cooperative cost-sharing and partnership arrangements 
authorized by law, procure printing services from cooperators in 
connection with jointly produced publications for which the cooperators 
share the cost of printing either in cash or in services, and the 
Bureau determines the cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality 
standards:  Provided further, That projects to be funded pursuant to a 
written commitment by a State government to provide an identified 
amount of money in support of the project may be carried out by the 
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropriations herein made shall not be 
available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and 
burros in the care of the Bureau or its contractors or for the sale of 
wild horses and burros that results in their destruction for processing 
into commercial products.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                          resource management

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, as authorized by law, and for scientific and economic studies, 
general administration, and for the performance of other authorized 
functions related to such resources, $1,364,760,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$23,442,000 shall be used for implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), 
and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1533) (except for processing petitions, developing and issuing proposed 
and final regulations, and taking any other steps to implement actions 
described in subsection (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii)).
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available under this 
heading, in accordance with the joint explanatory statement 
accompanying the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, for central 
office operations in fiscal year 2019, $4,000,000 is permanently 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              construction

    For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of buildings 
and other facilities required in the conservation, management, 
investigation, protection, and utilization of fish and wildlife 
resources, and the acquisition of lands and interests therein; 
$15,693,000, to remain available until expended.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 54, 
United States Code, including administrative expenses, and for 
acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with 
statutory authority applicable to the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, $67,750,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and to remain available until expended, of which, 
notwithstanding section 200306 of title 54, United States Code, not 
more than $10,000,000 shall be for land conservation partnerships 
authorized by the Highlands Conservation Act of 2004, including not to 
exceed $320,000 for administrative expenses:  Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated for specific land acquisition projects may be 
used to pay for any administrative overhead, planning or other 
management costs.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 6 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535), $63,702,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $23,702,000 is to be derived from the 
Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund; and of which 
$40,000,000 is to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund.
    Of the unobligated balances made available from the Cooperative 
Endangered Species Conservation Fund, $10,000,000 is permanently 
rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $13,228,000.

               north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.), 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                neotropical migratory bird conservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Neotropical Migratory Bird 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $4,910,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                multinational species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant 
Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the Rhinoceros and 
Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape 
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), and the Marine 
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $15,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                    state and tribal wildlife grants

    For wildlife conservation grants to States and to the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the 
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Indian tribes under the 
provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish and 
Wildlife Coordination Act, for the development and implementation of 
programs for the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, including 
species that are not hunted or fished, $70,571,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of the amount provided herein, 
$5,209,000 is for a competitive grant program for Indian tribes not 
subject to the remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided 
further, That $7,362,000 is for a competitive grant program to 
implement approved plans for States, territories, and other 
jurisdictions and at the discretion of affected States, the regional 
Associations of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to the 
remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall, after deducting $12,571,000 and administrative 
expenses, apportion the amount provided herein in the following manner: 
(1) to the District of Columbia and to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
each a sum equal to not more than one-half of 1 percent thereof; and 
(2) to Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, each a sum equal to not 
more than one-fourth of 1 percent thereof:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall apportion the remaining amount in the following manner: 
(1) one-third of which is based on the ratio to which the land area of 
such State bears to the total land area of all such States; and (2) 
two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to which the population of 
such State bears to the total population of all such States:  Provided 
further, That the amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be 
adjusted equitably so that no State shall be apportioned a sum which is 
less than 1 percent of the amount available for apportionment under 
this paragraph for any fiscal year or more than 5 percent of such 
amount:  Provided further, That the Federal share of planning grants 
shall not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of such projects and the 
Federal share of implementation grants shall not exceed 65 percent of 
the total costs of such projects:  Provided further, That the non-
Federal share of such projects may not be derived from Federal grant 
programs:  Provided further, That any amount apportioned in 2020 to any 
State, territory, or other jurisdiction that remains unobligated as of 
September 30, 2021, shall be reapportioned, together with funds 
appropriated in 2022, in the manner provided herein.

                       administrative provisions

    The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may carry out the 
operations of Service programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements with public 
and private entities. Appropriations and funds available to the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service shall be available for repair of 
damage to public roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused 
by operations of the Service; options for the purchase of land at not 
to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to such public 
recreational uses on conservation areas as are consistent with their 
primary purpose; and the maintenance and improvement of aquaria, 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Service 
and to which the United States has title, and which are used pursuant 
to law in connection with management, and investigation of fish and 
wildlife resources:  Provided, That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the 
Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and partnership 
arrangements authorized by law, procure printing services from 
cooperators in connection with jointly produced publications for which 
the cooperators share at least one-half the cost of printing either in 
cash or services and the Service determines the cooperator is capable 
of meeting accepted quality standards:  Provided further, That the 
Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing 
aircraft:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, all 
fees collected for non-toxic shot review and approval shall be 
deposited under the heading ``United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
Resource Management'' and shall be available to the Secretary, without 
further appropriation, to be used for expenses of processing of such 
non-toxic shot type or coating applications and revising regulations as 
necessary, and shall remain available until expended.

                         National Park Service

                 operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service and for the general administration of the National Park 
Service, $2,646,979,000, of which $10,282,000 for planning and 
interagency coordination in support of Everglades restoration and 
$150,980,000 for maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation projects for 
constructed assets and $166,575,000 for cyclic maintenance projects for 
constructed assets and cultural resources and $5,000,000 shall be for 
uses authorized by section 101122 of title 54, United States Code shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading in this Act are available for the 
purposes of section 5 of Public Law 95-348:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 9(a) of the United States Semiquincentennial 
Commission Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-196; 130 Stat. 691), $500,000 of 
the funds made available under this heading shall be provided to the 
organization selected under section 9(b) of that Act for expenditure by 
the United States Semiquincentennial Commission in accordance with that 
Act.  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 9 of the 400 Years 
of African-American History Commission Act (Public Law 115-102; 131 
Stat. 2248), $500,000 of the funds made available under this heading 
shall be provided to the 400 Years of African-American History 
Commission for expenditure in accordance with that Act.

                  national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, and 
grant administration, not otherwise provided for, $73,508,000.

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the National Historic 
Preservation Act (division A of subtitle III of title 54, United States 
Code), $121,660,000, to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund 
and to remain available until September 30, 2021, of which $16,000,000 
shall be for Save America's Treasures grants for preservation of 
national significant sites, structures and artifacts as authorized by 
section 7303 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (54 
U.S.C. 3089):  Provided, That an individual Save America's Treasures 
grant shall be matched by non-Federal funds:  Provided further, That 
individual projects shall only be eligible for one grant:  Provided 
further, That all projects to be funded shall be approved by the 
Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That of the funds 
provided for the Historic Preservation Fund, $750,000 is for 
competitive grants for the survey and nomination of properties to the 
National Register of Historic Places and as National Historic Landmarks 
associated with communities currently under-represented, as determined 
by the Secretary, $22,500,000 is for competitive grants to preserve the 
sites and stories of the Civil Rights movement, $10,000,000 is for 
grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and $5,000,000 
is for competitive grants for the restoration of historic properties of 
national, State and local significance listed on or eligible for 
inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places, to be made 
without imposing the usage or direct grant restrictions of section 
101(e)(3) (54 U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historical Preservation 
Act:  Provided further, That such competitive grants shall be made 
without imposing the matching requirements in section 302902(b)(3) of 
title 54, United States Code, to States and Indian tribes as defined in 
chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian organizations, local 
governments, including Certified Local Governments, and non-profit 
organizations.

                              construction

    For construction, improvements, repair, or replacement of physical 
facilities, and compliance and planning for programs and areas 
administered by the National Park Service, $319,704,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for any project initially funded in fiscal year 2021 
with a future phase indicated in the National Park Service 5-Year Line 
Item Construction Plan, a single procurement may be issued which 
includes the full scope of the project:  Provided further, That the 
solicitation and contract shall contain the clause availability of 
funds found at 48 CFR 52.232-18:  Provided further, That National Park 
Service Donations, Park Concessions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees 
may be made available for the cost of adjustments and changes within 
the original scope of effort for projects funded by the National Park 
Service Construction appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Interior shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations, in accordance with current reprogramming thresholds, 
prior to making any charges authorized by this section.

                    land and water conservation fund

                              (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 2020 by section 
200308 of title 54, United States Code, is rescinded.

                 land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out chapter 2003 of title 54, 
United States Code, including administrative expenses, and for 
acquisition of lands or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with 
the statutory authority applicable to the National Park Service, 
$208,400,000, to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund 
and to remain available until expended, of which $140,000,000 is for 
the State assistance program and of which $15,000,000 shall be for the 
American Battlefield Protection Program grants as authorized by chapter 
3081 of title 54, United States Code.

                          centennial challenge

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of section 
101701 of title 54, United States Code, relating to challenge cost 
share agreements, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
Centennial Challenge projects and programs:  Provided, That not less 
than 50 percent of the total cost of each project or program shall be 
derived from non-Federal sources in the form of donated cash, assets, 
or a pledge of donation guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of credit.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    In addition to other uses set forth in section 101917(c)(2) of 
title 54, United States Code, franchise fees credited to a sub-account 
shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary, without further 
appropriation, for use at any unit within the National Park System to 
extinguish or reduce liability for Possessory Interest or leasehold 
surrender interest. Such funds may only be used for this purpose to the 
extent that the benefitting unit anticipated franchise fee receipts 
over the term of the contract at that unit exceed the amount of funds 
used to extinguish or reduce liability. Franchise fees at the 
benefitting unit shall be credited to the sub-account of the 
originating unit over a period not to exceed the term of a single 
contract at the benefitting unit, in the amount of funds so expended to 
extinguish or reduce liability.
    For the costs of administration of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund grants authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico 
Energy Security Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432), the National Park 
Service may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts which are authorized 
to be disbursed under such section, such retained amounts to remain 
available until expended.
    National Park Service funds may be transferred to the Federal 
Highway Administration (FHWA), Department of Transportation, for 
purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204. Transfers may include a 
reasonable amount for FHWA administrative support costs.

                    United States Geological Survey

                 surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, biology, and the mineral and water resources of the 
United States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct 
inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and materials 
processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) 
and related purposes as authorized by law; and to publish and 
disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; $1,236,398,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2021; of which $84,337,000 
shall remain available until expended for satellite operations; and of 
which $20,164,000 shall be available until expended for deferred 
maintenance and capital improvement projects that exceed $100,000 in 
cost:  Provided, That none of the funds provided for the ecosystem 
research activity shall be used to conduct new surveys on private 
property, unless specifically authorized in writing by the property 
owner:  Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
used to pay more than one-half the cost of topographic mapping or water 
resources data collection and investigations carried on in cooperation 
with States and municipalities.

                       administrative provisions

    From within the amount appropriated for activities of the United 
States Geological Survey such sums as are necessary shall be available 
for contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the 
making of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is 
administratively determined that such procedures are in the public 
interest; construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations, 
observation wells, and seismic equipment; expenses of the United States 
National Committee for Geological Sciences; and payment of compensation 
and expenses of persons employed by the Survey duly appointed to 
represent the United States in the negotiation and administration of 
interstate compacts:  Provided, That activities funded by 
appropriations herein made may be accomplished through the use of 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as defined in section 6302 
of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That the United 
States Geological Survey may enter into contracts or cooperative 
agreements directly with individuals or indirectly with institutions or 
nonprofit organizations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for the 
temporary or intermittent services of students or recent graduates, who 
shall be considered employees for the purpose of chapters 57 and 81 of 
title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation for travel and 
work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, 
relating to tort claims, but shall not be considered to be Federal 
employees for any other purposes.

                   Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

                        ocean energy management

    For expenses necessary for granting and administering leases, 
easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and gas, other 
minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer Continental 
Shelf and approving operations related thereto, as authorized by law; 
for environmental studies, as authorized by law; for implementing other 
laws and to the extent provided by Presidential or Secretarial 
delegation; and for matching grants or cooperative agreements, 
$182,781,000, of which $122,781,000 is to remain available until 
September 30, 2021, and of which $60,000,000 is to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That this total appropriation shall be 
reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and credited to this 
appropriation from additions to receipts resulting from increases to 
lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost recovery 
fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 
pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, including studies, 
assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous administrative activities:  
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2020 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$122,781,000:  Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be 
available for reasonable expenses related to promoting volunteer beach 
and marine cleanup activities.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

             offshore safety and environmental enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the regulation of operations related to 
leases, easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and 
gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer 
Continental Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing and implementing 
laws and regulations as authorized by law and to the extent provided by 
Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for matching grants or 
cooperative agreements, $145,504,000, of which $119,504,000 is to 
remain available until September 30, 2021, and of which $26,000,000 is 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That this total 
appropriation shall be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary 
and credited to this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting 
from increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and 
from cost recovery fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of 
Safety and Environmental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, and 
miscellaneous administrative activities:  Provided further, That the 
sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2020 appropriation estimated at not more than $119,504,000.
    For an additional amount, $47,308,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and 
credited to this appropriation, which shall be derived from non-
refundable inspection fees collected in fiscal year 2020, as provided 
in this Act:  Provided, That to the extent that amounts realized from 
such inspection fees exceed $47,308,000, the amounts realized in excess 
of $47,308,000 shall be credited to this appropriation and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, 
not less than 50 percent of the inspection fees expended by the Bureau 
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement will be used to fund personnel 
and mission-related costs to expand capacity and expedite the orderly 
development, subject to environmental safeguards, of the Outer 
Continental Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), including the review of applications for permits 
to drill.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title 
IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of 
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $14,899,000, which shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                       regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 
$121,647,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.
    In addition, for costs to review, administer, and enforce permits 
issued by the Office pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95-87 (30 
U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That fees assessed and collected by the Office pursuant to such section 
507 shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
collections, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced 
as collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result in 
a fiscal year 2020 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$121,647,000.

                    abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, $24,713,000, to 
be derived from receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That pursuant to Public Law 
97-365, the Department of the Interior is authorized to use up to 20 
percent from the recovery of the delinquent debt owed to the United 
States Government to pay for contracts to collect these debts:  
Provided further, That funds made available under title IV of Public 
Law 95-87 may be used for any required non-Federal share of the cost of 
projects funded by the Federal Government for the purpose of 
environmental restoration related to treatment or abatement of acid 
mine drainage from abandoned mines:  Provided further, That such 
projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act:  Provided further, That 
amounts provided under this heading may be used for the travel and per 
diem expenses of State and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored training.
    In addition, $115,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
grants to States and federally recognized Indian Tribes for reclamation 
of abandoned mine lands and other related activities in accordance with 
the terms and conditions in the report accompanying this Act:  
Provided, That such additional amount shall be used for economic and 
community development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 
U.S.C. 1233(a)):  Provided further, That of such additional amount, 
$75,000,000 shall be distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian 
States with the greatest amount of unfunded needs to meet the 
priorities described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of such section, 
$30,000,000 shall be distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appalachian 
States with the subsequent greatest amount of unfunded needs to meet 
such priorities, and $10,000,000 shall be for grants to federally 
recognized Indian Tribes without regard to their status as certified or 
uncertified under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)), for reclamation of abandoned mine lands and 
other related activities in accordance with the terms and conditions in 
the report accompanying this Act and shall be used for economic and 
community development in conjunction with the priorities in section 
403(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977:  
Provided further, That such additional amount shall be allocated to 
States and Indian Tribes within 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), $1,650,504,000 to remain available 
until September 30, 2021, except as otherwise provided herein; of which 
not to exceed $8,500 may be for official reception and representation 
expenses; of which not to exceed $77,734,000 shall be for welfare 
assistance payments:  Provided, That in cases of designated Federal 
disasters, the Secretary may exceed such cap, from the amounts provided 
herein, to provide for disaster relief to Indian communities affected 
by the disaster:  Provided further, That federally recognized Indian 
tribes and tribal organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes 
may use their tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance 
costs:  Provided further, That not to exceed $73,164,000 shall remain 
available until expended for housing improvement, road maintenance, 
attorney fees, litigation support, land records improvement, and the 
Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program:  Provided further, That any forestry 
funds allocated to a federally recognized tribe which remain 
unobligated as of September 30, 2021, may be transferred during fiscal 
year 2022 to an Indian forest land assistance account established for 
the benefit of the holder of the funds within the holder's trust fund 
account:  Provided further, That any such unobligated balances not so 
transferred shall expire on September 30, 2022:  Provided further, That 
in order to enhance the safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau 
may use funds to purchase uniforms or other identifying articles of 
clothing for personnel:  Provided further, That the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs may accept transfers of funds from U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection to supplement any other funding available for reconstruction 
or repair of roads owned by the Bureau of Indian Affairs as identified 
on the National Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory, 23 U.S.C. 
202(b)(1).

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the 
Bureau of Indian Education for fiscal year 2020, such sums as may be 
necessary, which shall be available for obligation through September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
no amounts made available under this heading shall be available for 
transfer to another budget account.

                              construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
irrigation and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other 
facilities, including architectural and engineering services by 
contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; and preparation 
of lands for farming, and for construction of the Navajo Indian 
Irrigation Project pursuant to Public Law 87-483; $146,014,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amounts as may be 
available for the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project 
may be transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available to the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be 
used to cover the road program management costs of the Bureau:  
Provided further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams 
program pursuant to the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall 
be made available on a nonreimbursable basis:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation may be reimbursed from the Office of the Special 
Trustee for American Indians appropriation for the appropriate share of 
construction costs for space expansion needed in agency offices to meet 
trust reform implementation:  Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Indian Irrigation Fund established by section 3211 of the WIIN Act 
(Public Law 114-322; 130 Stat. 1749).

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For payments and necessary administrative expenses for 
implementation of Indian land and water claim settlements pursuant to 
Public Laws 99-264, 100-580, 101-618, 111-11, 111-291, and 114-322, and 
for implementation of other land and water rights settlements, 
$45,644,000, to remain available until expended.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans and insured loans, $12,784,000, of 
which $1,725,000 is for administrative expenses, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974:  Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is 
to be guaranteed or insured, not to exceed $199,075,370.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts, and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.
    Notwithstanding Public Law 87-279 (25 U.S.C. 15), the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs may contract for services in support of the management, 
operation, and maintenance of the Power Division of the San Carlos 
Irrigation Project.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office oversight and Executive 
Direction and Administrative Services (except executive direction and 
administrative services funding for Tribal Priority Allocations, 
regional offices, and facilities operations and maintenance) shall be 
available for contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the Indian 
Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by 
this Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, this action shall not 
diminish the Federal Government's trust responsibility to that tribe, 
or the government-to-government relationship between the United States 
and that tribe, or that tribe's ability to access future 
appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 113 
of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, if in fiscal year 2003 
or 2004 a grantee received indirect and administrative costs pursuant 
to a distribution formula based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, 
the Secretary shall continue to distribute indirect and administrative 
cost funds to such grantee using the section 5(f) distribution formula.

                       Bureau of Indian Education

                 operation of indian education programs

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian Education 
programs, as authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 
1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Education 
Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled 
Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $1,000,233,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, except as otherwise provided 
herein: Provided, That federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal 
organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes may use their 
Tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance costs: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $721,690,000 for school operation 
costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education programs shall 
become available on July 1, 2020, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, including but not limited to the Indian Self-
Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) and section 1128 of 
the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed 
$81,508,000 within and only from such amounts made available for school 
operations shall be available for administrative cost grants associated 
with grants approved prior to July 1, 2020: Provided further, That in 
order to enhance the safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may 
use funds to purchase uniforms or other identifying articles of 
clothing for personnel.

                         education construction

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
buildings, utilities, and other facilities necessary for the operation 
of Indian Education programs, including architectural and engineering 
services by contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; 
$387,252,000 to remain available until expended; Provided, That for 
fiscal year 2020, in implementing new construction, replacement 
facilities construction, or facilities improvement and repair project 
grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to grant schools under 
Public Law 100-297, the Secretary of the Interior shall use the 
Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for 
Assistance Programs contained in part 12 of title 43, Code of Federal 
Regulations, as the regulatory requirements: Provided further, That 
such grants shall not be subject to section 12.61 of title 43, Code of 
Federal Regulations; the Secretary and the grantee shall negotiate and 
determine a schedule of payments for the work to be performed: Provided 
further, That in considering grant applications, the Secretary shall 
consider whether such grantee would be deficient in assuring that the 
construction projects conform to applicable building standards and 
codes and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as 
required by section 1125(b) of title XI of Public Law 95-561 (25 U.S.C. 
2005(b)), with respect to organizational and financial management 
capabilities: Provided further, That if the Secretary declines a grant 
application, the Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 
section 5206(f) of Public Law 100-297 (25 U.S.C. 2504(f)): Provided 
further, That any disputes between the Secretary and any grantee 
concerning a grant shall be subject to the disputes provision in 
section 5208(e) of Public Law 107-110 (25 U.S.C. 2507(e)): Provided 
further, That in order to ensure timely completion of construction 
projects, the Secretary may assume control of a project and all funds 
related to the project, if, not later than 18 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, any grantee receiving funds appropriated in 
this Act or in any prior Act, has not completed the planning and design 
phase of the project and commenced construction.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Education may carry out the operation of 
Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative 
agreements, compacts, and grants, either directly or in cooperation 
with States and other organizations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Education for central office oversight and 
Executive Direction and Administrative Services (except executive 
direction and administrative services funding for Tribal Priority 
Allocations, regional offices, and facilities operations and 
maintenance) shall be available for contracts, grants, compacts, or 
cooperative agreements with the Bureau of Indian Education under the 
provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-
Governance Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by 
this Act to the Bureau of Indian Education, this action shall not 
diminish the Federal Government's trust responsibility to that tribe, 
or the government-to-government relationship between the United States 
and that tribe, or that tribe's ability to access future 
appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Education, other than the amounts provided herein 
for assistance to public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be 
available to support the operation of any elementary or secondary 
school in the State of Alaska.
    No funds available to the Bureau of Indian Education shall be used 
to support expanded grades for any school or dormitory beyond the grade 
structure in place or approved by the Secretary of the Interior at each 
school in the Bureau of Indian Education school system as of October 1, 
1995, except that the Secretary of the Interior may waive this 
prohibition to support expansion of up to one additional grade when the 
Secretary determines such waiver is needed to support accomplishment of 
the mission of the Bureau of Indian Education, or more than one grade 
to expand the elementary grade structure for Bureau-funded schools with 
a K-2 grade structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations made available 
in this or any prior Act for schools funded by the Bureau shall be 
available, in accordance with the Bureau's funding formula, only to the 
schools in the Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996, and to any 
school or school program that was reinstated in fiscal year 2012. Funds 
made available under this Act may not be used to establish a charter 
school at a Bureau-funded school (as that term is defined in section 
1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that 
a charter school that is in existence on the date of the enactment of 
this Act and that has operated at a Bureau-funded school before 
September 1, 1999, may continue to operate during that period, but only 
if the charter school pays to the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to 
reimburse the Bureau for the use of the real and personal property 
(including buses and vans), the funds of the charter school are kept 
separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau does not assume 
any obligation for charter school programs of the State in which the 
school is located if the charter school loses such funding. Employees 
of Bureau-funded schools sharing a campus with a charter school and 
performing functions related to the charter school's operation and 
employees of a charter school shall not be treated as Federal employees 
for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 113 
of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, if in fiscal year 2003 
or 2004 a grantee received indirect and administrative costs pursuant 
to a distribution formula based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, 
the Secretary shall continue to distribute indirect and administrative 
cost funds to such grantee using the section 5(f) distribution formula.
    Funds available under this Act may not be used to establish 
satellite locations of schools in the Bureau school system as of 
September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary may waive this prohibition 
in order for an Indian tribe to provide language and cultural immersion 
educational programs for non-public schools located within the 
jurisdictional area of the tribal government which exclusively serve 
tribal members, do not include grades beyond those currently served at 
the existing Bureau-funded school, provide an educational environment 
with educator presence and academic facilities comparable to the 
Bureau-funded school, comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, or 
State health and safety standards, and the Americans with Disabilities 
Act, and demonstrate the benefits of establishing operations at a 
satellite location in lieu of incurring extraordinary costs, such as 
for transportation or other impacts to students such as those caused by 
busing students extended distances:  Provided, That no funds available 
under this Act may be used to fund operations, maintenance, 
rehabilitation, construction or other facilities-related costs for such 
assets that are not owned by the Bureau:  Provided further, That the 
term ``satellite school'' means a school location physically separated 
from the existing Bureau school by more than 50 miles but that forms 
part of the existing school in all other respects.

                          Departmental Offices

                        Office of the Secretary

                        departmental operations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior and for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by 
law, $131,232,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021; of 
which no less than $1,000,000 shall be for the hiring of additional 
personnel to assist the Department with its compliance responsibilities 
under 5 U.S.C. 552; of which not to exceed $15,000 may be for official 
reception and representation expenses; and of which up to $1,000,000 
shall be available for workers compensation payments and unemployment 
compensation payments associated with the orderly closure of the United 
States Bureau of Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Office of 
Valuation Services is to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and shall remain available until expended; and of 
which $11,061,000 for Indian land, mineral, and resource valuation 
activities shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
for Indian land, mineral, and resource valuation activities may, as 
needed, be transferred to and merged with the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
``Operation of Indian Programs'' and Bureau of Indian Education 
``Operation of Indian Education Programs'' accounts and the Office of 
the Special Trustee for American Indians ``Federal Trust Programs'' 
account:  Provided further, That funds made available through contracts 
or grants obligated during fiscal year 2020, as authorized by the 
Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall 
remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee.

                       administrative provisions

    For fiscal year 2020, up to $400,000 of the payments authorized by 
chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, may be retained for 
administrative expenses of the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program:  
Provided, That the amounts provided under this Act specifically for the 
Payments in Lieu of Taxes program are the only amounts available for 
payments authorized under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code:  
Provided further, That in the event the sums appropriated for any 
fiscal year for payments pursuant to this chapter are insufficient to 
make the full payments authorized by that chapter to all units of local 
government, then the payment to each local government shall be made 
proportionally:  Provided further, That the Secretary may make 
adjustments to payment to individual units of local government to 
correct for prior overpayments or underpayments:  Provided further, 
That no payment shall be made pursuant to that chapter to otherwise 
eligible units of local government if the computed amount of the 
payment is less than $100.

                            Insular Affairs

                       assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and other jurisdictions 
identified in section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188, $108,631,000, of 
which: (1) $99,140,000 shall remain available until expended for 
territorial assistance, including general technical assistance, 
maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef initiative and 
natural resources activities, and brown tree snake control and 
research; grants to the judiciary in American Samoa for compensation 
and expenses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the 
Government of American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, 
for construction and support of governmental functions; grants to the 
Government of the Virgin Islands, as authorized by law; grants to the 
Government of Guam, as authorized by law; and grants to the Government 
of the Northern Mariana Islands, as authorized by law (Public Law 94-
241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $9,491,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2021, for salaries and expenses of the Office of Insular 
Affairs:  Provided, That all financial transactions of the territorial 
and local governments herein provided for, including such transactions 
of all agencies or instrumentalities established or used by such 
governments, may be audited by the Government Accountability Office, at 
its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant 
grant funding shall be provided according to those terms of the 
Agreement of the Special Representatives on Future United States 
Financial Assistance for the Northern Mariana Islands approved by 
Public Law 104-134:  Provided further, That the funds for the program 
of operations and maintenance improvement are appropriated to 
institutionalize routine operations and maintenance improvement of 
capital infrastructure with territorial participation and cost sharing 
to be determined by the Secretary based on the grantee's commitment to 
timely maintenance of its capital assets:  Provided further, That any 
appropriation for disaster assistance under this heading in this Act or 
previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal matching funds 
for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided pursuant to 
section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).

                      compact of free association

    For grants and necessary expenses, $3,236,000, to remain available 
until expended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2) and 233 of the 
Compact of Free Association for the Republic of Palau; and section 
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association for the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of 
Micronesia, as authorized by Public Law 99-658 and Public Law 108-188.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    At the request of the Governor of Guam, the Secretary may transfer 
discretionary funds or mandatory funds provided under section 104(e) of 
Public Law 108-188 and Public Law 104-134, that are allocated for Guam, 
to the Secretary of Agriculture for the subsidy cost of direct or 
guaranteed loans, plus not to exceed three percent of the amount of the 
subsidy transferred for the cost of loan administration, for the 
purposes authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and 
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
for construction and repair projects in Guam, and such funds shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such 
loans or loan guarantees may be made without regard to the population 
of the area, credit elsewhere requirements, and restrictions on the 
types of eligible entities under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 
and section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act:  Provided further, That any funds transferred to the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available to 
make or guarantee loans under such authorities.

                        Office of the Solicitor

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $66,816,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$55,986,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For the operation of trust programs for Indians by direct 
expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, 
$97,613,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$17,911,000 from this or any other Act, may be available for historical 
accounting:  Provided, That $10,000,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until the Secretary provides the report required by section 
304(a)(3) of the Indian Trust Asset Reform Act (Public Law 114-178) to 
terminate the Office of the Special Trustee in its entirety, to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate:  Provided further, That funds for Trust Management improvements 
and litigation support may, as needed, be transferred to or merged with 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs ``Operation of Indian Programs'' and 
Bureau of Indian Education, ``Operation of Indian Education Programs'' 
account; the Office of the Solicitor, ``Salaries and Expenses'' 
account; and the Office of the Secretary, ``Departmental Operations'' 
account:  Provided further, That funds made available through contracts 
or grants obligated during fiscal year 2020, as authorized by the 
Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall 
remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall not be required to provide a quarterly statement of performance 
for any Indian trust account that has not had activity for at least 15 
months and has a balance of $15 or less:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall issue an annual account statement and maintain a record 
of any such accounts and shall permit the balance in each such account 
to be withdrawn upon the express written request of the account holder: 
 Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000 is available for the 
Secretary to make payments to correct administrative errors of either 
disbursements from or deposits to Individual Indian Money or Tribal 
accounts after September 30, 2002:  Provided further, That erroneous 
payments that are recovered shall be credited to and remain available 
in this account for this purpose:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall not be required to reconcile Special Deposit Accounts with a 
balance of less than $500 unless the Office of the Special Trustee 
receives proof of ownership from a Special Deposit Accounts claimant:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 102 of the American 
Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-412) or 
any other provision of law, the Secretary may aggregate the trust 
accounts of individuals whose whereabouts are unknown for a continuous 
period of at least five years and shall not be required to generate 
periodic statements of performance for the individual accounts:  
Provided further, That with respect to the ninth proviso, the Secretary 
shall continue to maintain sufficient records to determine the balance 
of the individual accounts, including any accrued interest and income, 
and such funds shall remain available to the individual account 
holders.
    Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available for the 
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, $3,000,000 is 
permanently rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Department-wide Programs

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, fire suppression 
operations, fire science and research, emergency rehabilitation, fuels 
management activities, and rural fire assistance by the Department of 
the Interior, $952,338,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $18,427,000 shall be for the renovation or 
construction of fire facilities:  Provided, That such funds are also 
available for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts 
from which funds were previously transferred for such purposes:  
Provided further, That of the funds provided $194,000,000 is for fuels 
management activities:  Provided further, That of the funds provided 
$20,470,000 is for burned area rehabilitation:  Provided further, That 
persons hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence 
and lodging without cost from funds available from this appropriation:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received 
by a bureau or office of the Department of the Interior for fire 
protection rendered pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of 
United States property, may be credited to the appropriation from which 
funds were expended to provide that protection, and are available 
without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That using the 
amounts designated under this title of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior may enter into procurement contracts, grants, or cooperative 
agreements, for fuels management activities, and for training and 
monitoring associated with such fuels management activities on Federal 
land, or on adjacent non-Federal land for activities that benefit 
resources on Federal land:  Provided further, That the costs of 
implementing any cooperative agreement between the Federal Government 
and any non-Federal entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the 
affected parties:  Provided further, That notwithstanding requirements 
of the Competition in Contracting Act, the Secretary, for purposes of 
fuels management activities, may obtain maximum practicable competition 
among: (1) local private, nonprofit, or cooperative entities; (2) Youth 
Conservation Corps crews, Public Lands Corps (Public Law 109-154), or 
related partnerships with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups; (3) 
small or micro-businesses; or (4) other entities that will hire or 
train locally a significant percentage, defined as 50 percent or more, 
of the project workforce to complete such contracts:  Provided further, 
That in implementing this section, the Secretary shall develop written 
guidance to field units to ensure accountability and consistent 
application of the authorities provided herein:  Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be used to reimburse the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine 
Fisheries Service for the costs of carrying out their responsibilities 
under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to 
consult and conference, as required by section 7 of such Act, in 
connection with wildland fire management activities:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Interior may use wildland fire appropriations 
to enter into leases of real property with local governments, at or 
below fair market value, to construct capitalized improvements for fire 
facilities on such leased properties, including but not limited to fire 
guard stations, retardant stations, and other initial attack and fire 
support facilities, and to make advance payments for any such lease or 
for construction activity associated with the lease:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may 
authorize the transfer of funds appropriated for wildland fire 
management, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000, between 
the Departments when such transfers would facilitate and expedite 
wildland fire management programs and projects:  Provided further, That 
funds provided for wildfire suppression shall be available for support 
of Federal emergency response actions:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for assistance to or 
through the Department of State in connection with forest and rangeland 
research, technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
and, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall be available 
to support forestry, wildland fire management, and related natural 
resource activities outside the United States and its territories and 
possessions, including technical assistance, education and training, 
and cooperation with United States and international organizations.  
Provided further, That of the funds provided under this heading, 
$383,657,000 is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    In addition to the amounts provided under this heading for wildfire 
suppression operations, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, is additional new budget authority as specified for purposes 
of section 251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended:  Provided, That the Secretary of the 
Interior may transfer such amounts to the Department of Agriculture for 
wildfire suppression operations.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the response action, including 
associated activities, performed pursuant to the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), $13,010,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$3,000,000, notwithstanding any other provision of law, shall be for 
analysis and initiation of radium decontamination and remediation at 
any land-grant university that may have been subject to such 
contamination as a result of actions of the former United States Bureau 
of Mines.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration

                natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment, restoration 
activities, and onshore oil spill preparedness by the Department of the 
Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), and 54 
U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,767,000, to remain available until expended.

                          working capital fund

    For the operation and maintenance of a departmental financial and 
business management system, information technology improvements of 
general benefit to the Department, cybersecurity, and the consolidation 
of facilities and operations throughout the Department, $69,284,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this Act or any other Act may be used to establish 
reserves in the Working Capital Fund account other than for accrued 
annual leave and depreciation of equipment without prior approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate:  Provided further, That the Secretary may assess reasonable 
charges to State, local and tribal government employees for training 
services provided by the National Indian Program Training Center, other 
than training related to Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may lease or otherwise provide space and related facilities, 
equipment or professional services of the National Indian Program 
Training Center to State, local and tribal government employees or 
persons or organizations engaged in cultural, educational, or 
recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) of title 40, 
United States Code) at the prevailing rate for similar space, 
facilities, equipment, or services in the vicinity of the National 
Indian Program Training Center:  Provided further, That all funds 
received pursuant to the two preceding provisos shall be credited to 
this account, shall be available until expended, and shall be used by 
the Secretary for necessary expenses of the National Indian Program 
Training Center:  Provided further, That the Secretary may enter into 
grants and cooperative agreements to support the Office of Natural 
Resource Revenue's collection and disbursement of royalties, fees, and 
other mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by law.

                        administrative provision

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, aircraft which may be obtained by 
donation, purchase or through available excess surplus property:  
Provided, That existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, with 
proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase price 
for the replacement aircraft.

                  office of natural resources revenue

    For necessary expenses for management of the collection and 
disbursement of royalties, fees, and other mineral revenue proceeds, 
and for grants and cooperative agreements, as authorized by law, 
$147,330,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021; of which 
$50,651,000 shall remain available until expended for the purpose of 
mineral revenue management activities:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, $15,000 shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Secretary concurred with the claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed to 
Indian allottees or tribes, or to correct prior unrecoverable erroneous 
payments.

             General Provisions, Department of the Interior

                     (including transfers of funds)

               emergency transfer authority--intra-bureau

    Sec. 101.  Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes:  Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted:  Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation, which must 
be requested as promptly as possible.

             emergency transfer authority--department-wide

    Sec. 102.  The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for emergency 
actions related to potential or actual earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, 
storms, or other unavoidable causes; for contingency planning 
subsequent to actual oil spills; for response and natural resource 
damage assessment activities related to actual oil spills or releases 
of hazardous substances into the environment; for the prevention, 
suppression, and control of actual or potential grasshopper and Mormon 
cricket outbreaks on lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, 
pursuant to the authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106-224 (7 
U.S.C. 7717(b)); for emergency reclamation projects under section 410 
of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year funds 
available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 
such funds as may be necessary to permit assumption of regulatory 
authority in the event a primacy State is not carrying out the 
regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act:  Provided, That 
appropriations made in this title for wildland fire operations shall be 
available for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in connection 
with their use for wildland fire operations, with such reimbursement to 
be credited to appropriations currently available at the time of 
receipt thereof:  Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to 
this section must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation, which 
must be requested as promptly as possible:  Provided further, That such 
replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a pro rata basis, 
accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.

                        authorized use of funds

    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, when authorized by the Secretary, 
in total amount not to exceed $500,000; purchase and replacement of 
motor vehicles, including specially equipped law enforcement vehicles; 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when authorized by 
the Secretary, for library membership in societies or associations 
which issue publications to members only or at a price to members lower 
than to subscribers who are not members.

            authorized use of funds, indian trust management

    Sec. 104.  Appropriations made in this Act under the headings 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, and Office of 
the Special Trustee for American Indians and any unobligated balances 
from prior appropriations Acts made under the same headings shall be 
available for expenditure or transfer for Indian trust management and 
reform activities. Total funding for historical accounting activities 
shall not exceed amounts specifically designated in this Act for such 
purpose. The Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations within 60 days of the expenditure or transfer of any 
funds under this section, including the amount expended or transferred 
and how the funds will be used.

           redistribution of funds, bureau of indian affairs

    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any Tribal 
Priority Allocation funds, including tribal base funds, to alleviate 
tribal funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, 
unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or inaccurate 
distribution methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in 
Tribal Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 
2020. Under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas 
or inaccurate distribution methodologies, the 10 percent limitation 
does not apply.

                 ellis, governors, and liberty islands

    Sec. 106.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands, waters, or 
interests therein including the use of all or part of any pier, dock, 
or landing within the State of New York and the State of New Jersey, 
for the purpose of operating and maintaining facilities in the support 
of transportation and accommodation of visitors to Ellis, Governors, 
and Liberty Islands, and of other program and administrative 
activities, by donation or with appropriated funds, including franchise 
fees (and other monetary consideration), or by exchange; and the 
Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into leases, subleases, 
concession contracts or other agreements for the use of such facilities 
on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may determine reasonable.

                outer continental shelf inspection fees

    Sec. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2020, the Secretary shall collect a 
nonrefundable inspection fee, which shall be deposited in the 
``Offshore Safety and Environmental Enforcement'' account, from the 
designated operator for facilities subject to inspection under 43 
U.S.C. 1348(c).
    (b) Annual fees shall be collected for facilities that are above 
the waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in place at the start 
of the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall be:
            (1) $11,500 for facilities with no wells, but with 
        processing equipment or gathering lines;
            (2) $18,500 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
        combination of active or inactive wells; and
            (3) $34,500 for facilities with more than 10 wells, with 
        any combination of active or inactive wells.
    (c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed for all inspections 
completed in fiscal year 2020. Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall be:
            (1) $33,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of 500 feet or more; and
            (2) $18,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of less than 500 feet.
    (d) Fees for inspection of well operations conducted via non-rig 
units as outlined in title 30 CFR 250 subparts D, E, F, and Q shall be 
assessed for all inspections completed in fiscal year 2020. Fees for 
fiscal year 2020 shall be:
            (1) $13,260 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths of 2,500 feet or more;
            (2) $11,530 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths between 500 and 2,499 feet; and
            (3) $4,470 per inspection for non-rig units operating in 
        water depths of less than 500 feet.
    (e) The Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsection 
(b) quarterly, with payment required within 30 days of billing. The 
Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsections (c) and (d) 
within 30 days of the end of the month in which the inspection 
occurred, with payment required within 30 days of billing.

                         disclosure of waivers

    Sec. 108. (a) Subject to subsection (b), in any case in which the 
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement or the Bureau of Ocean 
Energy Management issues any waiver, departure, deviation, variance, or 
any other alternative compliance authorization from any law, rule, 
regulation, or other directive, the head of such bureau shall post a 
copy of such waiver, departure, deviation, variance, or other 
alternative compliance authorization on such bureau's publically 
available website not more than 3 business days after such issuance.
    (b) The head of each bureau may redact confidential business 
information.

  contracts and agreements for wild horse and burro holding facilities

    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior may enter into multiyear cooperative 
agreements with nonprofit organizations and other appropriate entities, 
and may enter into multiyear contracts in accordance with the 
provisions of section 3903 of title 41, United States Code (except that 
the 5-year term restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply), for the 
long-term care and maintenance of excess wild free roaming horses and 
burros by such organizations or entities on private land. Such 
cooperative agreements and contracts may not exceed 10 years, subject 
to renewal at the discretion of the Secretary.

                       mass marking of salmonids

    Sec. 110.  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall, in 
carrying out its responsibilities to protect threatened and endangered 
species of salmon, implement a system of mass marking of salmonid 
stocks, intended for harvest, that are released from federally operated 
or federally financed hatcheries including but not limited to fish 
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead species. Marked fish must have 
a visible mark that can be readily identified by commercial and 
recreational fishers.

              contracts and agreements with indian affairs

    Sec. 111.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2020, in carrying out work involving cooperation with 
State, local, and tribal governments or any political subdivision 
thereof, Indian Affairs may record obligations against accounts 
receivable from any such entities, except that total obligations at the 
end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources 
available at the end of the fiscal year.

                   humane transfer of excess animals

    Sec. 112.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior may transfer excess wild horses or burros 
that have been removed from the public lands to other Federal, State, 
and local government agencies for use as work animals:  Provided, That 
the Secretary may make any such transfer immediately upon request of 
such Federal, State, or local government agency:  Provided further, 
That any excess animal transferred under this provision shall lose its 
status as a wild free-roaming horse or burro as defined in the Wild 
Free-Roaming Horses and Burros Act:  Provided further, That any 
Federal, State, or local government agency receiving excess wild horses 
or burros as authorized in this section shall not: destroy the horses 
or burros in a way that results in their destruction into commercial 
products; sell or otherwise transfer the horses or burros in a way that 
results in their destruction for processing into commercial products; 
or euthanize the horses or burros except upon the recommendation of a 
licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe injury, illness, or advanced 
age.

        department of the interior experienced services program

    Sec. 113. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law relating 
to Federal grants and cooperative agreements, the Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to make grants to, or enter into cooperative 
agreements with, private nonprofit organizations designated by the 
Secretary of Labor under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to 
utilize the talents of older Americans in programs authorized by other 
provisions of law administered by the Secretary and consistent with 
such provisions of law.
    (b) Prior to awarding any grant or agreement under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall ensure that the agreement would not--
            (1) result in the displacement of individuals currently 
        employed by the Department, including partial displacement 
        through reduction of non-overtime hours, wages, or employment 
        benefits;
            (2) result in the use of an individual under the Department 
        of the Interior Experienced Services Program for a job or 
        function in a case in which a Federal employee is in a layoff 
        status from the same or substantially equivalent job within the 
        Department; or
            (3) affect existing contracts for services.

                    payments in lieu of taxes (pilt)

    Sec. 114.  Section 6906 of title 31, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2020''.

                    republic of the marshall islands

    Sec. 115.  As authorized in section 111(d) of the Compact of Free 
Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239; 99 Stat. 1799; 48 U.S.C. 
1911) and section 108(b) of the Compact of Free Association Amendments 
Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188; 117 Stat. 2755; 48 U.S.C. 1921g), 
$5,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior, to 
remain available until expended by the Secretary, for the Republic of 
the Marshall Islands to deposit in the Compact Trust Fund of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands as compensation for adverse financial 
and economic impacts resulting from the effect of title IV of the 
Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239; 99 Stat. 
1799; 48 U.S.C. 1911) upon title II of the Compact.

                          obligation of funds

    Sec. 116.  Amounts appropriated by this Act to the Department of 
the Interior shall be available for obligation and expenditure not 
later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                      restriction on use of funds

    Sec. 117.  Before the final 2019-2024 Outer Continental Shelf Oil 
and Gas Leasing Program, or any plan that is dated later than 2017-
2022, is published in the Federal Register, none of the funds made 
available to the Department of Interior by this or any other Act may be 
used to conduct offshore oil and gas pre-leasing, leasing and related 
activities for any lease sale proposed in the Draft Proposed Program 
described in the ``Notice of Availability of the 2019-2024 Draft 
Proposed Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program and Notice 
of Intent to Prepare a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement'' 
published in the Federal Register on January 8, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 
829), unless such sale was also contained in the 2017-2022 Outer 
Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Proposed Final Program described in the 
``Notice of Availability of the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil 
and Gas Leasing Proposed Final Program'' published in the Federal 
Register on November 23, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg. 84612).

                          funding restriction

    Sec. 118.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
the Interior by this or any other Act may be used to conduct a lease 
sale pursuant to section 20001(c)(1) of Public Law 115-97 which does 
not contain a national minimum acceptable bid amount sufficient to 
produce Federal receipts to the Treasury, net of any state share, of no 
less than 50 percent of the amount required by section 2001(b) of H. 
Con. Res. 71, the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 
2018, as agreed to on October 26, 2017.

                        extension of authorities

    Sec. 119. (a) Section 512 of Title V of Division J of P.L. 108-447 
is amended by striking ``on the date that is 15 years after the date 
that funds are first made available for this title.'' and inserting 
``after September 30, 2022.''
    (b) Section 608 of Title VI of Division J of P.L. 108-447 is 
amended by striking ``the expiration of the 15-year period beginning on 
the date that funds are first made available for this title.'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2022.''
    (c) Section 109 of Title I of Public Law 103-449, as amended by 
Public Law 111-11, title VIII section 8201(c), is further amended by 
striking ``$15,000,000'' and inserting ``$17,000,000''.
    (d) Section 608(a) of Division II of Public Law 104-333, as amended 
by Public Law 110-229 section 461, is further amended by striking 
``$15,000,000'' and inserting ``$17,000,000''.
    (e) Section 810(a)(1) of Title VIII of Division B of Appendix D of 
Public Law 106-554, as amended by Public Law 115-31, Division G, Title 
I section 115(b), is further amended by striking ``$12,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$14,000,000''.

                         separation of accounts

    Sec. 120.  The Secretary of the Interior, in order to implement an 
orderly transition to separate accounts of the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
and the Bureau of Indian Education, may transfer funds among and 
between the successor offices and bureaus affected by the 
reorganization only in conformance with the reprogramming guidelines 
described in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980; necessary expenses for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses; procurement of laboratory equipment and 
supplies; and other operating expenses in support of research and 
development, $727,633,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021:  Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, 
$6,000,000 shall be for Research: National Priorities as specified in 
the report accompanying this Act.

                 Environmental Programs and Management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, 
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; library 
memberships in societies or associations which issue publications to 
members only or at a price to members lower than to subscribers who are 
not members; administrative costs of the brownfields program under the 
Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 
2002; implementation of a coal combustion residual permit program under 
section 2301 of the Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to exceed 
$9,000 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$2,707,704,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, $17,700,000 
shall be for Environmental Protection: National Priorities as specified 
in the report accompanying this Act.  Provided further, That of the 
funds included under this heading, $501,958,000 shall be for Geographic 
Programs specified in the report accompanying this Act.
    In addition, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses of activities described in section 26(b)(1) of the 
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2625(b)(1)):  Provided, That 
fees collected pursuant to that section of that Act and deposited in 
the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary offsetting receipts in 
fiscal year 2020 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries and 
expenses in this appropriation and shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated in this 
paragraph from the general fund for fiscal year 2020 shall be reduced 
by the amount of discretionary offsetting receipts received during 
fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That to the extent that amounts realized from such 
receipts exceed $5,000,000, those amount in excess of $5,000,000 shall 
be deposited in the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary 
offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2020, shall be retained and used for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That of the funds included 
in the first paragraph under this heading, the Chemical Risk Review and 
Reduction program project shall be allocated for this fiscal year, 
excluding the amount of any fees appropriated, not less than the amount 
of appropriations for that program project for fiscal year 2014.

            Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest System Fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3024 of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6939g), including the development, operation, 
maintenance, and upgrading of the hazardous waste electronic manifest 
system established by such section, $8,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections under such 
section 3024 are received during fiscal year 2020, which shall remain 
available until expended and be used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $0:  
Provided further, That to the extent such offsetting collections 
received in fiscal year 2020 exceed $8,000,000, those excess amounts 
shall remain available until expended and be used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$48,514,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                        Buildings and Facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $39,553,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     Hazardous Substance Superfund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including 
sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611), and 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, $1,214,648,000, to remain 
available until expended, consisting of such sums as are available in 
the Trust Fund on September 30, 2019, as authorized by section 517(a) 
of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and 
up to $1,214,648,000 as a payment from general revenues to the 
Hazardous Substance Superfund for purposes as authorized by section 
517(b) of SARA:  Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading 
may be allocated to other Federal agencies in accordance with section 
111(a) of CERCLA:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, $9,586,000 shall be paid to the ``Office of 
Inspector General'' appropriation to remain available until September 
30, 2021, and $30,496,000 shall be paid to the ``Science and 
Technology'' appropriation to remain available until September 30, 
2021.

          Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by subtitle I of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act, $94,410,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$69,041,000 shall be for carrying out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying out the other 
provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) 
of the Internal Revenue Code:  Provided, That the Administrator is 
authorized to use appropriations made available under this heading to 
implement section 9013 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act to provide 
financial assistance to federally recognized Indian tribes for the 
development and implementation of programs to manage underground 
storage tanks.

                       Inland Oil Spill Programs

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
including hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, $23,237,000, to 
be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, to remain available 
until expended.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $4,620,992,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which--
            (1) $1,784,000,000 shall be for making capitalization 
        grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which 
        $1,300,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
        the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided, That for fiscal year 
        2020, to the extent there are sufficient eligible project 
        applications and projects are consistent with State Intended 
        Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the funds made available 
        under this title to each State for Clean Water State Revolving 
        Fund capitalization grants shall be used by the State for 
        projects to address green infrastructure, water or energy 
        efficiency improvements, or other environmentally innovative 
        activities:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, funds 
        made available under this title to each State for Drinking 
        Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants may, at the 
        discretion of each State, be used for projects to address green 
        infrastructure, water or energy efficiency improvements, or 
        other environmentally innovative activities:  Provided further, 
        That notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, the limitation on the amounts in a State 
        water pollution control revolving fund that may be used by a 
        State to administer the fund shall not apply to amounts 
        included as principal in loans made by such fund in fiscal year 
        2020 and prior years where such amounts represent costs of 
        administering the fund to the extent that such amounts are or 
        were deemed reasonable by the Administrator, accounted for 
        separately from other assets in the fund, and used for eligible 
        purposes of the fund, including administration:  Provided 
        further, That for fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding the 
        provisions of subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, grants made under 
        title II of such Act for American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth 
        of the Northern Marianas, the United States Virgin Islands, and 
        the District of Columbia may also be made for the purpose of 
        providing assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding the provisions of such 
        subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section 
        518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, funds 
        reserved by the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act may also be used to 
        provide assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That for 
        fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding any provision of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act and regulations issued pursuant 
        thereof, up to a total of $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by 
        the Administrator for grants under section 518(c) of such Act 
        may also be used for grants for training, technical assistance, 
        and educational programs relating to the operation and 
        management of the treatment works specified in section 518(c) 
        of such Act:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, 
        funds reserved under section 518(c) of such Act shall be 
        available for grants only to Indian tribes, as defined in 
        section 518(h) of such Act and former Indian reservations in 
        Oklahoma (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior) and 
        Native Villages as defined in Public Law 92-203:  Provided 
        further, That for fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding the 
        limitation on amounts in section 518(c) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds 
        appropriated, or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and 
        notwithstanding the limitation on amounts in section 1452(i) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the 
        funds appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is greater, for 
        State Revolving Funds under such Acts may be reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants under section 518(c) and section 
        1452(i) of such Acts:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 
        2020, notwithstanding the amounts specified in section 205(c) 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to 1.5 percent 
        of the aggregate funds appropriated for the Clean Water State 
        Revolving Fund program under the Act less any sums reserved 
        under section 518(c) of the Act, may be reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants made under title II of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act for American Samoa, Guam, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and United States Virgin 
        Islands:  Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020, 
        notwithstanding the limitations on amounts specified in section 
        1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of 
        the funds appropriated for the Drinking Water State Revolving 
        Fund programs under the Safe Drinking Water Act may be reserved 
        by the Administrator for grants made under section 1452(j) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided further, That 10 percent 
        of the funds made available under this title to each State for 
        Clean Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants and 14 
        percent of the funds made available under this title to each 
        State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund capitalization 
        grants shall be used by the State to provide additional subsidy 
        to eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness of principal, 
        negative interest loans, or grants (or any combination of 
        these), and shall be so used by the State only where such funds 
        are provided as initial financing for an eligible recipient or 
        to buy, refinance, or restructure the debt obligations of 
        eligible recipients only where such debt was incurred on or 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, or where such debt was 
        incurred prior to the date of enactment of this Act if the 
        State, with concurrence from the Administrator, determines that 
        such funds could be used to help address a threat to public 
        health from heightened exposure to lead in drinking water or if 
        a Federal or State emergency declaration has been issued due to 
        a threat to public health from heightened exposure to lead in a 
        municipal drinking water supply before the date of enactment of 
        this Act:  Provided further, That in a State in which such an 
        emergency declaration has been issued, the State may use more 
        than 14 percent of the funds made available under this title to 
        the State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
        capitalization grants to provide additional subsidy to eligible 
        recipients;
            (2) $30,000,000 shall be for architectural, engineering, 
        planning, design, construction and related activities in 
        connection with the construction of high priority water and 
        wastewater facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico 
        Border, after consultation with the appropriate border 
        commission:  Provided, That no funds provided by this 
        appropriations Act to address the water, wastewater and other 
        critical infrastructure needs of the colonias in the United 
        States along the United States-Mexico border shall be made 
        available to a county or municipal government unless that 
        government has established an enforceable local ordinance, or 
        other zoning rule, which prevents in that jurisdiction the 
        development or construction of any additional colonia areas, or 
        the development within an existing colonia the construction of 
        any new home, business, or other structure which lacks water, 
        wastewater, or other necessary infrastructure;
            (3) $20,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska 
        to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs 
        of rural and Alaska Native Villages:  Provided, That of these 
        funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall provide a match of 25 
        percent; (B) no more than 5 percent of the funds may be used 
        for administrative and overhead expenses; and (C) the State of 
        Alaska shall make awards consistent with the Statewide priority 
        list established in conjunction with the Agency and the U.S. 
        Department of Agriculture for all water, sewer, waste disposal, 
        and similar projects carried out by the State of Alaska that 
        are funded under section 221 of the Federal Water Pollution 
        Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301) or the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
        Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which shall allocate 
        not less than 25 percent of the funds provided for projects in 
        regional hub communities;
            (4) $105,000,000 shall be to carry out section 104(k) of 
        the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, interagency 
        agreements, and associated program support costs:  Provided, 
        That not more than 25 percent of the amount appropriated to 
        carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be used for site 
        characterization, assessment, and remediation of facilities 
        described in section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA:  Provided 
        further, That at least 10 percent shall be allocated for 
        assistance in persistent poverty counties:  Provided further, 
        That for purposes of this section, the term ``persistent 
        poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or 
        more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 
        years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and 
        the most recent Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates;
            (5) $55,000,000 shall be for grants under title VII, 
        subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
            (6) $30,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed grants in 
        accordance with the terms and conditions in the report 
        accompanying this Act;
            (7) $4,000,000 shall be to carry out the water quality 
        program authorized in section 5004(d) of the Water 
        Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (Public Law 114-
        322);
            (8) $25,000,000 shall be for grants and other activities 
        under subsections (a) through (j) of section 1459A of the Safe 
        Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a));
            (9) $25,000,000 shall be for grants and other activities 
        under section 1464(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
        300j-24(d));
            (10) $20,000,000 shall be for grants under section 1459B of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19b));
            (11) $4,000,000 shall be for grants under section 1459A(l) 
        of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a(l));
            (12) $13,000,000 shall be for grants under section 
        104(b)(8) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
        1254(b)(8));
            (13) $90,000,000 shall be for grants under section 221 of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301);
            (14) $1,000,000 shall be for grants under section 4304(b) 
        of America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-
        270); and
            (15) $1,114,992,000 shall be for grants, including 
        associated program support costs, to States, federally 
        recognized tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and 
        air pollution control agencies for multi-media or single media 
        pollution prevention, control and abatement and related 
        activities, including activities pursuant to the provisions set 
        forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for making 
        grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for particulate 
        matter monitoring and data collection activities subject to 
        terms and conditions specified by the Administrator, of which: 
        $47,745,000 shall be for carrying out section 128 of CERCLA; 
        $9,646,000 shall be for Environmental Information Exchange 
        Network grants, including associated program support costs; 
        $1,498,000 shall be for grants to States under section 
        2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, which shall be in 
        addition to funds appropriated under the heading ``Leaking 
        Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program'' to carry out the 
        provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 
        9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other than section 9003(h) 
        of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds 
        available for grants under section 106 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act shall be for State participation in 
        national- and State-level statistical surveys of water 
        resources and enhancements to State monitoring programs.

      Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account

    For the cost of direct loans and for the cost of guaranteed loans, 
as authorized by the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014, $45,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, including 
capitalized interest, and total loan principal, including capitalized 
interest, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$5,490,000,000.
    In addition, fees authorized to be collected pursuant to sections 
5029 and 5030 of the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 
2014 shall be deposited in this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of the Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014, $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 
6305(1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in 
carrying out the Agency's function to implement directly Federal 
environmental programs required or authorized by law in the absence of 
an acceptable tribal program, may award cooperative agreements to 
federally recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal consortia, if 
authorized by their member tribes, to assist the Administrator in 
implementing Federal environmental programs for Indian tribes required 
or authorized by law, except that no such cooperative agreements may be 
awarded from funds designated for State financial assistance 
agreements.
    The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
authorized to collect and obligate pesticide registration service fees 
in accordance with section 33 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, 
and Rodenticide Act, as amended by Public Law 116-8, the Pesticide 
Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2018.
    Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w-8(d)(2)), the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may assess fees 
under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w-8) for fiscal year 2020.
    The Administrator is authorized to transfer up to $320,000,000 of 
the funds appropriated for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative under 
the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' to the head of 
any Federal department or agency, with the concurrence of such head, to 
carry out activities that would support the Great Lakes Restoration 
Initiative and Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement programs, projects, 
or activities; to enter into an interagency agreement with the head of 
such Federal department or agency to carry out these activities; and to 
make grants to governmental entities, nonprofit organizations, 
institutions, and individuals for planning, research, monitoring, 
outreach, and implementation in furtherance of the Great Lakes 
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.
    The Science and Technology, Environmental Programs and Management, 
Office of Inspector General, Hazardous Substance Superfund, and Leaking 
Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are available for 
the construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
facilities, provided that the cost does not exceed $150,000 per 
project.
    For fiscal year 2020, and notwithstanding section 518(f) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), the 
Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated for any 
fiscal year under section 319 of the Act to make grants to Indian 
tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) and 518(e) of that Act.
    The Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated 
under the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' for fiscal 
year 2020 to provide grants to implement the Southeastern New England 
Watershed Restoration Program.
    Notwithstanding the limitations on amounts in section 320(i)(2)(B) 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, not less than $4,000,000 of 
the funds made available under this title for the National Estuary 
Program shall be for making competitive awards described in section 
320(g)(4).
    The fourth paragraph under heading ``Administrative Provisions'' in 
title II of Public Law 109-54 is amended by striking ``2020'' and 
inserting ``2025''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

  office of the under secretary for natural resources and environment

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Natural Resources and Environment, $875,000:  Provided, That funds made 
available by this Act to any agency in the Natural Resources and 
Environment mission area for salaries and expenses are available to 
fund up to one administrative support staff for the office.

                             Forest Service

                       forest service operations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $921,849,000 to remain available through September 30, 
2021, for (1) the base salary and expenses of permanent employees 
carrying out administrative and general management support functions of 
the Forest Service; (2) the costs of leases for buildings and sites 
where such support functions take place; (3) the costs of utility and 
telecommunication expenses, business services, and information 
technology, including cybersecurity requirements; and (4) such other 
administrative support function expenses necessary for the operation of 
the Forest Service:  Provided, That not to exceed $565,713,000 shall be 
available for the base salaries and expenses described in paragraph 
(1):  Provided further, That any unobligated balances available to the 
Forest Service from prior fiscal years for the purposes described under 
this heading shall be transferred to and merged with this account:  
Provided further, That any funding for the purposes described under 
this heading that are authorized to be paid by permanent funds or trust 
funds of the Forest Service shall be transferred to and merged with 
this account:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided to the 
Forest Service under this Act (other than under this heading) may be 
used to fund indirect expenses that before the date of the enactment of 
this Act were provided for through discretionary cost pools.

                     forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $277,155,000, to remain available through September 
30, 2023:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $73,174,000 is for the 
forest inventory and analysis program:  Provided further, That all 
authorities for the use of funds, including the use of contracts, 
grants, and cooperative agreements, available to execute the Forest and 
Rangeland Research appropriation, are also available in the utilization 
of these funds for Fire Science Research.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, and 
others, and for forest health management, and conducting an 
international program as authorized, $382,894,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2023, as authorized by law; of which $75,000,000 
is to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be used 
for the Forest Legacy Program, to remain available until expended.

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, and for hazardous fuels management on or 
adjacent to such lands, $1,599,308,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2023:  Provided, That of the funds provided, $35,526,000 
shall be deposited in the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration 
Fund for ecological restoration treatments as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 
7303(f):  Provided further, That of the funds provided, $276,603,000 
shall be for forest products:  Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, $390,169,000 shall be for hazardous fuels management 
activities, of which not to exceed $15,000,000 may be used to make 
grants, using any authorities available to the Forest Service under the 
``State and Private Forestry'' appropriation, for the purpose of 
creating incentives for increased use of biomass from National Forest 
System lands:  Provided further, That $20,000,000 may be used by the 
Secretary of Agriculture to enter into procurement contracts or 
cooperative agreements or to issue grants for hazardous fuels 
management activities, and for training or monitoring associated with 
such hazardous fuels management activities on Federal land, or on non-
Federal land if the Secretary determines such activities benefit 
resources on Federal land:  Provided further, That funds made available 
to implement the Community Forestry Restoration Act, Public Law 106-
393, title VI, shall be available for use on non-Federal lands in 
accordance with authorities made available to the Forest Service under 
the ``State and Private Forestry'' appropriations:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 33 of the Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in calculating a fee for 
grazing on a National Grassland, may provide a credit of up to 50 
percent of the calculated fee to a Grazing Association or direct 
permittee for a conservation practice approved by the Secretary in 
advance of the fiscal year in which the cost of the conservation 
practice is incurred. And, that the amount credited shall remain 
available to the Grazing Association or the direct permittee, as 
appropriate, in the fiscal year in which the credit is made and each 
fiscal year thereafter for use on the project for conservation 
practices approved by the Secretary.

                  capital improvement and maintenance

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $419,103,000, to remain available through September 30, 
2023, for construction, capital improvement, maintenance and 
acquisition of buildings and other facilities and infrastructure; and 
for construction, reconstruction, decommissioning of roads that are no 
longer needed, including unauthorized roads that are not part of the 
transportation system, and maintenance of forest roads and trails by 
the Forest Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 
and 205:  Provided, That funds becoming available in fiscal year 2020 
under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to 
the General Fund of the Treasury and shall not be available for 
transfer or obligation for any other purpose unless the funds are 
appropriated.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of chapter 2003 
of title 54, United States Code, including administrative expenses, and 
for acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance 
with statutory authority applicable to the Forest Service, $90,000,000, 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain 
available until expended.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California; and the Ozark-St. Francis and Ouachita 
National Forests, Arkansas; as authorized by law, $700,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities, and for authorized 
expenditures from funds deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to 
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967 
(16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available through September 30, 2022, (16 
U.S.C. 516-617a, 555a; Public Law 96-586; Public Law 76-589, 76-591; 
and Public Law 78-310).

                         range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, to remain available through September 30, 2023, of 
which not to exceed 6 percent shall be available for administrative 
expenses associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, 
protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $45,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2023, to be derived from the fund 
established pursuant to the above Act.

        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage Federal 
lands in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alaska 
National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), 
$2,500,000, to remain available through September 30, 2023.

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency wildland fire suppression 
on or adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection 
agreement, and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National 
Forest System lands and water, $2,009,545,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2023:  Provided, That such funds including 
unobligated balances under this heading, are available for repayment of 
advances from other appropriations accounts previously transferred for 
such purposes:  Provided further, That any unobligated funds 
appropriated in a previous fiscal year for hazardous fuels management 
may be transferred to the ``National Forest System'' account:  Provided 
further, That such funds shall be available to reimburse State and 
other cooperating entities for services provided in response to 
wildfire and other emergencies or disasters to the extent such 
reimbursements by the Forest Service for non-fire emergencies are fully 
repaid by the responsible emergency management agency:  Provided 
further, That funds provided shall be available for support to Federal 
emergency response:  Provided further, That the costs of implementing 
any cooperative agreement between the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected 
parties:  Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, $1,011,000,000 shall be available for wildfire suppression 
operations, and is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
     In addition to the amounts provided under this heading for 
wildfire suppression operations, $1,950,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, is additional new budget authority as specified for 
purposes of section 251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture may transfer such amounts to the Department of Interior for 
wildfire suppression operations.

               administrative provisions--forest service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; 
acquisition of passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire 
of such vehicles; purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and 
acquisition of aircraft to maintain the operable fleet for use in 
Forest Service wildland fire programs and other Forest Service 
programs; notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft 
being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value 
used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; (2) 
services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
428a; (5) for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National 
Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) the cost 
of uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for debt 
collection contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appropriated to the Forest 
Service shall be available for expenditure or transfer to the 
Department of the Interior for wildland fire management, hazardous 
fuels management, and State fire assistance when such transfers would 
facilitate and expedite wildland fire management programs and projects.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development in 
connection with forest and rangeland research, technical information, 
and assistance in foreign countries, and shall be available to support 
forestry and related natural resource activities outside the United 
States and its territories and possessions, including technical 
assistance, education and training, and cooperation with U.S., private, 
and international organizations. The Forest Service, acting for the 
International Program, may sign direct funding agreements with foreign 
governments and institutions as well as other domestic agencies 
(including the U.S. Agency for International Development, the 
Department of State, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation), U.S. 
private sector firms, institutions and organizations to provide 
technical assistance and training programs overseas on forestry and 
rangeland management.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Land Management, for removal, preparation, and adoption of excess wild 
horses and burros from National Forest System lands, and for the 
performance of cadastral surveys to designate the boundaries of such 
lands.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service in this Act 
or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year shall be subject to 
transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442 of Public 
Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or section 10417(b) of Public Law 107-171 
(7 U.S.C. 8316(b)).
    Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available to the Forest Service 
shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund of the Department of 
Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000 of funds available to the 
Forest Service shall be transferred to the Department of Agriculture 
for Department Reimbursable Programs, commonly referred to as Greenbook 
charges. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit or limit the use of 
reimbursable agreements requested by the Forest Service in order to 
obtain services from the Department of Agriculture's National 
Information Technology Center and the Department of Agriculture's 
International Technology Service.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $5,000,000 
shall be available for priority projects within the scope of the 
approved budget, which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation 
Corps and shall be carried out under the authority of the Public Lands 
Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.).
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $4,000 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of 
the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be 
advanced in a lump sum to the National Forest Foundation to aid 
conservation partnership projects in support of the Forest Service 
mission, without regard to when the Foundation incurs expenses, for 
projects on or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to 
Forest Service programs:  Provided, That of the Federal funds made 
available to the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall be available 
for administrative expenses:  Provided further, That the Foundation 
shall obtain, by the end of the period of Federal financial assistance, 
private contributions to match funds made available by the Forest 
Service on at least a one-for-one basis:  Provided further, That the 
Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-Federal 
recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient has 
obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to $3,000,000 
of the funds available to the Forest Service may be advanced to the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in a lump sum to aid cost-share 
conservation projects, without regard to when expenses are incurred, on 
or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest 
Service programs:  Provided, That such funds shall be matched on at 
least a one-for-one basis by the Foundation or its sub-recipients:  
Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a 
Federal or non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that 
the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities and natural resource-based businesses for sustainable rural 
development purposes.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    Any funds appropriated to the Forest Service may be used to meet 
the non-Federal share requirement in section 502(c) of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(c)(2)).
    The Forest Service shall not assess funds for the purpose of 
performing fire, administrative, and other facilities maintenance and 
decommissioning.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall not be available for 
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and burros in the 
care of the Forest Service or its contractors or for the sale of wild 
horses and burros that results in their destruction for processing into 
commercial products.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of any appropriations 
or funds available to the Forest Service, not to exceed $500,000 may be 
used to reimburse the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), Department 
of Agriculture, for travel and related expenses incurred as a result of 
OGC assistance or participation requested by the Forest Service at 
meetings, training sessions, management reviews, land purchase 
negotiations and similar matters unrelated to civil litigation. Future 
budget justifications for both the Forest Service and the Department of 
Agriculture should clearly display the sums previously transferred and 
the sums requested for transfer.
    An eligible individual who is employed in any project funded under 
title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) and 
administered by the Forest Service shall be considered to be a Federal 
employee for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, through the Office 
of Budget and Program Analysis, the Forest Service shall report no 
later than 30 business days following the close of each fiscal quarter 
all current and prior year unobligated balances, by fiscal year, budget 
line item and account, to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
$4,556,870,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, except as 
otherwise provided herein, together with payments received during the 
fiscal year pursuant to sections 231(b) and 233 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 238(b) and 238b), for services furnished by the 
Indian Health Service:  Provided, That funds made available to tribes 
and tribal organizations through contracts, grant agreements, or any 
other agreements or compacts authorized by the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), 
shall be deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant or contract 
award and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal 
organization without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That 
$2,000,000 shall be available for grants or contracts with public or 
private institutions to provide alcohol or drug treatment services to 
Indians, including alcohol detoxification services:  Provided further, 
That $969,479,000 for Purchased/Referred Care, including $53,000,000 
for the Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund, shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, up to $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
implementation of the loan repayment program under section 108 of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act:  Provided further, That of the 
funds provided, $53,000,000 shall remain available until expended to 
supplement funds available for operational costs at tribal clinics 
operated under an Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act compact or contract where health care is delivered in space 
acquired through a full service lease, which is not eligible for 
maintenance and improvement and equipment funds from the Indian Health 
Service, and $58,000,000 shall be for costs related to or resulting 
from accreditation emergencies, including supplementing activities 
funded under the heading ``Indian Health Facilities,'' of which up to 
$4,000,000 may be used to supplement amounts otherwise available for 
Purchased/Referred Care:  Provided further, That the amounts collected 
by the Federal Government as authorized by sections 104 and 108 of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a) during 
the preceding fiscal year for breach of contracts shall be deposited to 
the Fund authorized by section 108A of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1) and 
shall remain available until expended and, notwithstanding section 
108A(c) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1(c)), funds shall be available to 
make new awards under the loan repayment and scholarship programs under 
sections 104 and 108 of that Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a):  Provided 
further, That the amounts made available within this account for the 
Substance Abuse and Suicide Prevention Program, for Opioid Prevention, 
Treatment and Recovery Services, for the Domestic Violence Prevention 
Program, for the Zero Suicide Initiative, for the housing subsidy 
authority for civilian employees, for Aftercare Pilot Programs at Youth 
Regional Treatment Centers, for transformation and modernization costs 
of the Indian Health Service Electronic Health Record system, for 
national quality and oversight activities, for initiatives to treat or 
reduce the transmission of Hepatitis-C and HIV-AIDS or both in high 
priority areas, to improve collections from public and private 
insurance at Indian Health Service and tribally operated facilities, 
and for accreditation emergencies shall be allocated at the discretion 
of the Director of the Indian Health Service and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That funds provided in this Act may 
be used for annual contracts and grants that fall within 2 fiscal 
years, provided the total obligation is recorded in the year the funds 
are appropriated:  Provided further, That the amounts collected by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of title IV 
of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain 
available until expended for the purpose of achieving compliance with 
the applicable conditions and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of 
the Social Security Act, except for those related to the planning, 
design, or construction of new facilities:  Provided further, That 
funding contained herein for scholarship programs under the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That amounts received by tribes and 
tribal organizations under title IV of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act shall be reported and accounted for and available to 
the receiving tribes and tribal organizations until expended:  Provided 
further, That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may collect from the Indian 
Health Service, and from tribes and tribal organizations operating 
health facilities pursuant to Public Law 93-638, such individually 
identifiable health information relating to disabled children as may be 
necessary for the purpose of carrying out its functions under the 
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.):  
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $72,280,000 is for the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Fund and may be used, as needed, to 
carry out activities typically funded under the Indian Health 
Facilities account;  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to the Indian Health Service for the 
Electronic Health Record system shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure for the selection or implementation of a new Information 
Technology infrastructure system, unless the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
consulted 90 days in advance of such obligation.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Indian Health Service for fiscal 
year 2020, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no amounts made available 
under this heading shall be available for transfer to another budget 
account.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, demolition, and 
equipment of health and related auxiliary facilities, including 
quarters for personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and 
drawings; acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular 
buildings, and purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and 
community sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 
of the Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-
Determination Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for 
expenses necessary to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act with respect to environmental health and 
facilities support activities of the Indian Health Service, 
$964,121,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated for the 
planning, design, construction, renovation or expansion of health 
facilities for the benefit of an Indian tribe or tribes may be used to 
purchase land on which such facilities will be located:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $500,000 may be used by the Indian Health 
Service to purchase TRANSAM equipment from the Department of Defense 
for distribution to the Indian Health Service and tribal facilities:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated to the Indian 
Health Service may be used for sanitation facilities construction for 
new homes funded with grants by the housing programs of the United 
States Department of Housing and Urban Development.

            administrative provisions--indian health service

    Appropriations provided in this Act to the Indian Health Service 
shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 at rates 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable 
for senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services; uniforms or 
allowances therefor as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for 
expenses of attendance at meetings that relate to the functions or 
activities of the Indian Health Service:  Provided, That in accordance 
with the provisions of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, non-
Indian patients may be extended health care at all tribally 
administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject to charges, 
and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal Medical 
Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to the 
account of the facility providing the service and shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
administered under Public Law 86-121, the Indian Sanitation Facilities 
Act and Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That funds appropriated 
to the Indian Health Service in this Act, except those used for 
administrative and program direction purposes, shall not be subject to 
limitations directed at curtailing Federal travel and transportation:  
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian 
Health Service in this Act shall be used for any assessments or charges 
by the Department of Health and Human Services unless identified in the 
budget justification and provided in this Act, or approved by the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations through the reprogramming 
process:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, funds previously or herein made available to a tribe or tribal 
organization through a contract, grant, or agreement authorized by 
title I or title V of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), may be deobligated and 
reobligated to a self-determination contract under title I, or a self-
governance agreement under title V of such Act and thereafter shall 
remain available to the tribe or tribal organization without fiscal 
year limitation:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be used to 
implement the final rule published in the Federal Register on September 
16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human Services, relating to 
the eligibility for the health care services of the Indian Health 
Service until the Indian Health Service has submitted a budget request 
reflecting the increased costs associated with the proposed final rule, 
and such request has been included in an appropriations Act and enacted 
into law:  Provided further, That with respect to functions transferred 
by the Indian Health Service to tribes or tribal organizations, the 
Indian Health Service is authorized to provide goods and services to 
those entities on a reimbursable basis, including payments in advance 
with subsequent adjustment, and the reimbursements received therefrom, 
along with the funds received from those entities pursuant to the 
Indian Self-Determination Act, may be credited to the same or 
subsequent appropriation account from which the funds were originally 
derived, with such amounts to remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That reimbursements for training, technical 
assistance, or services provided by the Indian Health Service will 
contain total costs, including direct, administrative, and overhead 
costs associated with the provision of goods, services, or technical 
assistance:  Provided further, That the Indian Health Service may 
provide to civilian medical personnel serving in hospitals operated by 
the Indian Health Service housing allowances equivalent to those that 
would be provided to members of the Commissioned Corps of the United 
States Public Health Service serving in similar positions at such 
hospitals:  Provided further, That the appropriation structure for the 
Indian Health Service may not be altered without advance notification 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                     National Institutes of Health

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For necessary expenses for the National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences in carrying out activities set forth in section 311(a) 
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the 
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, $80,000,000.

            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

            toxic substances and environmental public health

    For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth in 
sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and section 
3019 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, $79,691,000:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, in lieu of performing a 
health assessment under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the Administrator 
of ATSDR may conduct other appropriate health studies, evaluations, or 
activities, including, without limitation, biomedical testing, clinical 
evaluations, medical monitoring, and referral to accredited healthcare 
providers:  Provided further, That in performing any such health 
assessment or health study, evaluation, or activity, the Administrator 
of ATSDR shall not be bound by the deadlines in section 104(i)(6)(A) of 
CERCLA:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for ATSDR to issue in excess of 40 
toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during 
fiscal year 2020, and existing profiles may be updated as necessary.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

                   Executive Office of the President

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan 
No. 1 of 1977, and not to exceed $750 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $2,994,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the 
Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the President, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate, serving as chairman and 
exercising all powers, functions, and duties of the Council.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum 
rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
$12,000,000:  Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard 
Investigation Board (Board) shall have not more than three career 
Senior Executive Service positions:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual appointed to 
the position of Inspector General of the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of such appointment, also hold the 
position of Inspector General of the Board:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Inspector General of 
the Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of Inspector General of 
EPA in performing the duties of the Inspector General of the Board, and 
shall not appoint any individuals to positions within the Board.

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible 
individuals and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-
partitioned lands residents, those in significantly substandard 
housing, and all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
preceding categories:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this or any other Act may be used by the Office of Navajo 
and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or Navajo family 
who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled on the lands 
partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household:  Provided further, That no relocatee will 
be provided with more than one new or replacement home:  Provided 
further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to section 11 of Public 
Law 93-531 (88 Stat. 1716).

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by part A of title XV of 
Public Law 99-498 (20 U.S.C. 4411 et seq.), $10,850,000, which shall 
become available on July 1, 2020, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease agreements of no 
more than 30 years, and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
employees, $852,345,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, 
except as otherwise provided herein; of which not to exceed $6,908,000 
for the instrumentation program, collections acquisition, exhibition 
reinstallation, and the repatriation of skeletal remains program shall 
remain available until expended; and including such funds as may be 
necessary to support American overseas research centers:  Provided, 
That funds appropriated herein are available for advance payments to 
independent contractors performing research services or participating 
in official Smithsonian presentations.

                           facilities capital

    For necessary expenses of repair, revitalization, and alteration of 
facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by 
contract or otherwise, as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 
22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), and for construction, including necessary 
personnel, $219,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $10,000 shall be for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109.

                        National Gallery of Art

                         salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works 
of art for the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without 
advertising, with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or 
prices and under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem 
proper, $147,022,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, of 
which not to exceed $3,660,000 for the special exhibition program shall 
remain available until expended.

            repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, for operating lease 
agreements of no more than 10 years, with no extensions or renewals 
beyond the 10 years, that address space needs created by the ongoing 
renovations in the Master Facilities Plan, as authorized, $34,603,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of this amount, 
$1,000,000 shall be available for design of an off-site art storage 
facility in partnership with the Smithsonian Institution:  Provided 
further, That contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection 
systems, and exterior repair or renovation of buildings of the National 
Gallery of Art may be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded 
on the basis of contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $25,690,000.

                     capital repair and restoration

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $17,800,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$14,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $167,500,000 shall be available to 
the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of projects and 
productions in the arts, including arts education and public outreach 
activities, through assistance to organizations and individuals 
pursuant to section 5 of the Act, for program support, and for 
administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
expended.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $167,500,000 to remain available 
until expended, of which $152,500,000 shall be available for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act and 
for administering the functions of the Act; and $15,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the matching grants program pursuant to section 
10(a)(2) of the Act, including $13,000,000 for the purposes of section 
7(h):  Provided, That appropriations for carrying out section 10(a)(2) 
shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal 
to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the National 
Endowment for the Humanities under the provisions of sections 
11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal 
years for which equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                       Administrative Provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses:  Provided further, That the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts may approve grants of up to 
$10,000, if in the aggregate the amount of such grants does not exceed 
5 percent of the sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes per year:  
Provided further, That such small grant actions are taken pursuant to 
the terms of an expressed and direct delegation of authority from the 
National Council on the Arts to the Chairperson.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Commission of Fine Arts under chapter 91 of 
title 40, United States Code, $3,282,000:  Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to charge fees to cover the full costs of its 
publications, and such fees shall be credited to this account as an 
offsetting collection, to remain available until expended without 
further appropriation:  Provided further, That the Commission is 
authorized to accept gifts, including objects, papers, artwork, 
drawings and artifacts, that pertain to the history and design of the 
Nation's Capital or the history and activities of the Commission of 
Fine Arts, for the purpose of artistic display, study, or education:  
Provided further, That one-tenth of one percent of the funds provided 
under this heading may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 
U.S.C. 956a), $5,000,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665), $7,388,000.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Capital Planning Commission 
under chapter 87 of title 40, United States Code, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $8,124,000:  Provided, That one-quarter of 
1 percent of the funds provided under this heading may be used for 
official reception and representational expenses associated with 
hosting international visitors engaged in the planning and physical 
development of world capitals.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Museum

                       holocaust memorial museum

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, as authorized by 
Public Law 106-292 (36 U.S.C. 2301-2310), $61,388,000, of which 
$715,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2022, for the 
Museum's equipment replacement program; and of which $3,000,000 for the 
Museum's repair and rehabilitation program and $1,264,000 for the 
Museum's outreach initiatives program shall remain available until 
expended.

                Dwight d. Eisenhower Memorial Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
Commission, $1,800,000, to remain available until expended.

                   world war i centennial commission

                         salaries and expenses

    Notwithstanding section 9 of the World War I Centennial Commission 
Act, as authorized by the World War I Centennial Commission Act (Public 
Law 112-272) and the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), 
for necessary expenses of the World War I Centennial Commission, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, 
That in addition to the authority provided by section 6(g) of such Act, 
the World War I Commission may accept money, in-kind personnel 
services, contractual support, or any appropriate support from any 
executive branch agency for activities of the Commission.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      restriction on use of funds

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
opposition to any legislative proposal on which Congressional action is 
not complete other than to communicate to Members of Congress as 
described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.

                      obligation of appropriations

    Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                 disclosure of administrative expenses

    Sec. 403.  The amount and basis of estimated overhead charges, 
deductions, reserves or holdbacks, including working capital fund and 
cost pool charges, from programs, projects, activities and 
subactivities to support government-wide, departmental, agency, or 
bureau administrative functions or headquarters, regional, or central 
operations shall be presented in annual budget justifications and 
subject to approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate. Changes to such estimates shall be 
presented to the Committees on Appropriations for approval.

                          mining applications

    Sec. 404. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned (1) a patent 
application was filed with the Secretary on or before September 30, 
1994; and (2) all requirements established under sections 2325 and 2326 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or lode claims, 
sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 
35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case may be, were 
fully complied with by the applicant by that date.
    (c) Report.--On September 30, 2021, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House and the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on actions taken by 
the Department under the plan submitted pursuant to section 314(c) of 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1997 (Public Law 104-208).
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of 
the mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application as 
set forth in subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have 
the sole responsibility to choose and pay the third-party contractor in 
accordance with the standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the retention of third-party contractors.

             contract support costs, prior year limitation

    Sec. 405.  Sections 405 and 406 of division F of the Consolidated 
and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235) 
shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2020.

          contract support costs, fiscal year 2020 limitation

    Sec. 406.  Amounts provided by this Act for fiscal year 2020 under 
the headings ``Department of Health and Human Services, Indian Health 
Service, Contract Support Costs'' and ``Department of the Interior, 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, Contract 
Support Costs'' are the only amounts available for contract support 
costs arising out of self-determination or self-governance contracts, 
grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements for fiscal year 2020 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Bureau of Indian Education, and the 
Indian Health Service:  Provided, That such amounts provided by this 
Act are not available for payment of claims for contract support costs 
for prior years, or for repayments of payments for settlements or 
judgments awarding contract support costs for prior years.

                        forest management plans

    Sec. 407.  The Secretary of Agriculture shall not be considered to 
be in violation of subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and Rangeland 
Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) 
solely because more than 15 years have passed without revision of the 
plan for a unit of the National Forest System. Nothing in this section 
exempts the Secretary from any other requirement of the Forest and 
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.) or 
any other law:  Provided, That if the Secretary is not acting 
expeditiously and in good faith, within the funding available, to 
revise a plan for a unit of the National Forest System, this section 
shall be void with respect to such plan and a court of proper 
jurisdiction may order completion of the plan on an accelerated basis.

                 prohibition within national monuments

    Sec. 408.  No funds provided in this Act may be expended to conduct 
preleasing, leasing and related activities under either the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a National 
Monument established pursuant to the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 
et seq.) as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001, except where 
such activities are allowed under the Presidential proclamation 
establishing such monument.

                         limitation on takings

    Sec. 409.  Unless otherwise provided herein, no funds appropriated 
in this Act for the acquisition of lands or interests in lands may be 
expended for the filing of declarations of taking or complaints in 
condemnation without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided, That this provision shall not apply to funds 
appropriated to implement the Everglades National Park Protection and 
Expansion Act of 1989, or to funds appropriated for Federal assistance 
to the State of Florida to acquire lands for Everglades restoration 
purposes.

                    prohibition on no-bid contracts

    Sec. 410.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act to executive branch agencies may be used to enter 
into any Federal contract unless such contract is entered into in 
accordance with the requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United 
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, and the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless--
            (1) Federal law specifically authorizes a contract to be 
        entered into without regard for these requirements, including 
        formula grants for States, or federally recognized Indian 
        tribes;
            (2) such contract is authorized by the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638, 
        25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that 
        specifically authorize a contract within an Indian tribe as 
        defined in section 4(e) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
            (3) such contract was awarded prior to the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

                           posting of reports

    Sec. 411. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public 
website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the 
Congress in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head 
of the agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

            national endowment for the arts grant guidelines

    Sec. 412.  Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
            (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or 
        American Jazz Masters Fellowship.
            (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
        that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made 
        to a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used 
        to make a grant to any other organization or individual to 
        conduct activity independent of the direct grant recipient. 
        Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments made in 
        exchange for goods and services.
            (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs or projects.

           national endowment for the arts program priorities

    Sec. 413. (a) In providing services or awarding financial 
assistance under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities 
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given 
to providing services or awarding financial assistance for projects, 
productions, workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
    (b) In this section:
            (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
        of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
        historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
        programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income 
        below the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
            (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
        defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
        annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
        family of the size involved.
    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out section 5 of 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965--
            (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
        projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
        national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
        States;
            (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
        percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
        excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
            (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually 
        and by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each 
        grant category under section 5 of such Act; and
            (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
        improve and support community-based music performance and 
        education.

                  status of balances of appropriations

    Sec. 414.  The Department of the Interior, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Forest Service, and the Indian Health Service 
shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate quarterly reports on the status of balances 
of appropriations including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated 
funds in each program and activity.

                        contracting authorities

    Sec. 415.  Section 412 of Division E of Public Law 112-74 is 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2021''.

                      extension of grazing permits

    Sec. 416.  The terms and conditions of section 325 of Public Law 
108-108 (117 Stat. 1307), regarding grazing permits issued by the 
Forest Service on any lands not subject to administration under section 
402 of the Federal Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1752), 
shall remain in effect for fiscal year 2020.

                          funding prohibition

    Sec. 417. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network is 
designed to block access to pornography websites.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.

        forest service facility realignment and enhancement act

    Sec. 418.  Section 503(f) of the Forest Service Facility 
Realignment and Enhancement Act of 2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public 
Law 109-54) is amended by striking ``2019'' and inserting ``2020''.

                     use of american iron and steel

    Sec. 419. (a)(1) None of the funds made available by a State water 
pollution control revolving fund as authorized by section 1452 of the 
Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) shall be used for a project 
for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public 
water system or treatment works unless all of the iron and steel 
products used in the project are produced in the United States.
    (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel'' products means the 
following products made primarily of iron or steel: lined or unlined 
pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, 
hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, 
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction 
materials.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (in 
this section referred to as the ``Administrator'') finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of 
        a satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.
    (c) If the Administrator receives a request for a waiver under this 
section, the Administrator shall make available to the public on an 
informal basis a copy of the request and information available to the 
Administrator concerning the request, and shall allow for informal 
public input on the request for at least 15 days prior to making a 
finding based on the request. The Administrator shall make the request 
and accompanying information available by electronic means, including 
on the official public Internet Web site of the Environmental 
Protection Agency.
    (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
United States obligations under international agreements.
    (e) The Administrator may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State 
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provisions described in subsection 
(a)(1) for management and oversight of the requirements of this 
section.

                 john f. kennedy center reauthorization

    Sec. 420.  Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy Center Act (20 U.S.C. 
76r) is amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(a) Maintenance, Repair, and Security.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Board to carry out section 4(a)(1)(H), $25,690,000 
for fiscal year 2020.
    ``(b) Capital Projects.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
the Board to carry out subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section 4(a)(1), 
$17,800,000 for fiscal year 2020.''.

local cooperator training agreements and transfers of excess equipment 
                       and supplies for wildfires

    Sec. 421.  The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to enter 
into grants and cooperative agreements with volunteer fire departments, 
rural fire departments, rangeland fire protection associations, and 
similar organizations to provide for wildland fire training and 
equipment, including supplies and communication devices. 
Notwithstanding 121(c) of title 40, United States Code, or section 521 
of title 40, United States Code, the Secretary is further authorized to 
transfer title to excess Department of the Interior firefighting 
equipment no longer needed to carry out the functions of the 
Department's wildland fire management program to such organizations.

                            recreation fees

    Sec. 422.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2019'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2021''.

 reprogramming procedures, disclosure of administrative expenses, and 
                            operating plans

    Sec. 423. (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) ``Reprogramming'' includes:
                    (A) The reallocation of funds from one program, 
                project, or activity, to another within any 
                appropriation funded in this Act.
                    (B) For construction, land acquisition, and forest 
                legacy accounts, the reallocation of funds, including 
                unobligated balances, from one construction, land 
                acquisition, or forest legacy project to another such 
                project.
                    (C) An operating plan or any later modification 
                thereof submitted under subsection (i) of this section.
                    (D) Proposed reorganizations even without a change 
                in funding, including any change to the organization 
                table presented in the budget justification.
            (2) ``Program'', ``project'', and ``activity'' constitute 
        the delineation below the appropriation account level of any 
        agency funded by this Act, as shown in any table of the report 
        accompanying this Act.
            (3) ``Funds'' includes funds provided in this Act or 
        previous appropriations Acts that are available for obligation 
        in the current fiscal year and any amounts available for 
        obligation in the current fiscal year derived from collections, 
        fees or charges.
            (4) ``Assessment'' is any overhead charge, deduction, 
        reserve or holdback, including working capital fund and cost 
        pool charges, from any program, project, and activity to 
        support government-wide, departmental, agency, or bureau 
        administrative functions or headquarters, regional, or central 
        operations or to provide for contingencies.
    (b) General Guidelines for Reprogramming.--
            (1) A reprogramming should be made only when an unforeseen 
        situation arises, and then only if postponement of the project 
        or the activity until the next appropriation year would result 
        in actual loss or damage.
            (2) Any project or activity, which may be deferred through 
        reprogramming, shall not later be accomplished by means of 
        further reprogramming, but instead, funds should again be 
        sought for the deferred project or activity through the regular 
        appropriations process.
            (3) Except under the most urgent situations, reprogramming 
        should not be employed to initiate new programs or increase 
        allocations specifically denied or limited by the Congress, or 
        to decrease allocations specifically increased by the Congress.
            (4) New programs requested in the budget should not be 
        initiated before enactment of the bill without notification to, 
        and the approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives and the Senate (hereinafter ``the 
        Committees''). This restriction applies to all such actions 
        regardless of whether a formal reprogramming of funds is 
        required to begin the program.
    (c) Criteria.--
            (1) A reprogramming shall be submitted to the Committees in 
        writing 30 days prior to implementation if--
                    (A) it exceeds $1,000,000 individually or 
                cumulatively or results in a cumulative increase or 
                decrease of more than 10 percent of funds annually in 
                any affected program, project, or activity;
                    (B) it is a reorganization; or
                    (C) it is an operating plan or any later 
                modification thereof as submitted under subsection (i) 
                of this section:  Provided, That such plan or 
                modification thereof also meets any of the other 
                criteria under subsection (c)(1) of this section.
            (2) No funds shall be available for obligation or 
        expenditure through a reprogramming until 30 days after the 
        receipt by the Committees of a notice of proposed 
        reprogramming.
            (3) A reprogramming shall be considered approved 30 days 
        after receipt if the Committees have posed no objection. 
        However, agencies shall not implement the reprogramming and 
        shall extend the notification period if specifically requested 
        by either Committee.
    (d) Exceptions.--
            (1) With regard to the tribal priority allocations of the 
        Bureau of Indian Affairs, there is no restriction on 
        reprogrammings among these programs. However, the Bureau shall 
        report on all reprogrammings made during a given fiscal year no 
        later than 60 days after the end of the fiscal year.
            (2) With regard to the Environmental Protection Agency, 
        State and Tribal Assistance Grants account, the Committees do 
        not require reprogramming requests associated with States and 
        Tribal Partnership Grants.
            (3) With regard to funding for Park Management 
        subactivities within the National Park Service Operations of 
        the National Park System account, reprogramming guidelines 
        apply at the activity level, not the more detailed level as 
        shown in the Committee report. The National Park Service shall 
        report on actual spending at the more detailed level no later 
        than 60 days after the end of the fiscal year and show its 
        impact on the succeeding year budget at the more detailed level 
        in the budget justification submitted to the Congress in the 
        subsequent fiscal year for the purpose of updating the 
        Committee support table.
    (e) Assessments.--
            (1) No assessment shall be levied or collected unless such 
        assessment and the basis therefor are presented to the 
        Committees in the budget justifications and are subsequently 
        approved by the Committees. The explanation for any assessment 
        in the budget justification shall show the amount of the 
        assessment, the activities assessed, and the purpose of the 
        funds.
            (2) Proposed changes to estimated assessments, as such 
        estimates were presented in annual budget justifications, shall 
        be submitted through the reprogramming process set out in this 
        section and shall be subject to the same dollar and reporting 
        criteria as any other reprogramming.
            (3) Each department, agency or bureau that utilizes 
        assessments shall submit an annual report to the Committees 
        which provides details on the use of all funds assessed from 
        any other program, project, or activity.
            (4) In no case shall contingency funds or assessments be 
        used to finance agency actions disapproved or limited by the 
        Congress.
    (f) Land Acquisitions, Easements, and Forest Legacy.--Lands shall 
not be acquired for more than the approved appraised value (as 
addressed in section 301(3) of Public Law 91-646), unless such 
acquisitions are submitted to the Committees for approval in compliance 
with these procedures.
    (g) Land Exchanges.--Land exchanges, wherein the estimated value of 
the Federal lands to be exchanged is greater than $1,000,000, shall not 
be consummated until the Committees have had a 30-day period in which 
to examine the proposed exchange. In addition, the Committees shall be 
provided advance notification of exchanges valued between $500,000 and 
$1,000,000.
    (h) Budget Structure.--The program, project, and activity structure 
for any agency appropriation account shall not be altered without 
advance approval of the Committees.
    (i) Operating Plans.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, each department or agency funded by this Act 
shall submit an operating plan to the Committees to establish the 
baseline for application of reprogramming for the current fiscal year. 
The operating plan shall include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
        to display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        the Congress, enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the 
        fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by 
        program, project, and activity for the respective 
        appropriation; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.

                          project information

    Sec. 424. (a) Not later than April 1, 2020, and each April 1 
thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate prioritized and detailed lists 
of federal land acquisition projects, and Forest Legacy projects, which 
could be executed within the three fiscal years beginning with the 
fiscal year after the date upon which the lists are submitted.
    (b) The federal land acquisition project lists required by 
subsection (a) shall include projects for the National Park Service, 
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and 
the U.S. Forest Service, including recreational public access projects 
as required by 54 U.S.C. 200306, and shall total for each agency no 
less than 150 percent of the amount enacted for that agency for the 
previous fiscal year.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020''.
                                                  Union Calendar No. 75

116th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3052

                          [Report No. 116-100]
                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior, environment, 
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and 
                          for other purposes.